MMG has announced the appointment of new executive committee member: Mark Davis, executive general manager operations – Africa, Australia and Asia.  Diversified base metals company MMG's new appointment of Mark Davis will be effective as of 01 January 2018. "MMG has demonstrated its ability to build, commission and operate challenging assets in difficult geographies,” comments MMG CEO Jerry Jiao. “We have done this safely, while meeting targets, delivering production and carefully managing costs. “As a result, there is no better place to look for leaders than within our own ranks," he continues. Mark Davis, executive GM operations – Africa, Australia and Asia About Mark Davis Davis, aged 44, was appointed as executive GM of operations – Africa, Australia and Asia and a member of the executive committee in January 2018. In his role, he has the primary responsibility for providing executive leadership for MMG operations within the Africa, Australia and Asia regions, as well as guide regional growth opportunities for the company. Joining the MMG in January 2013 as the manager projects - operational excellence, he was instrumental in the design and implementation of MMG’s operating model. He was appointed to his most recent role of GM operational excellence in November 2014 and was a critical contributor to the post acquisition integration, commissioning and ramp-up of Las Bambas. Prior to MMG, Davis has significant global mining experience, successfully leading businesses in a number of countries including a world scale smelting operation at Richard’s Bay, South Africa, with accountability for 3 000 employees. At BHP Billiton he worked across multiple commodities and across roles including engineering, business improvement, operations and business management and as a GM aluminium South Africa. Davis holds a Bachelor of Metallurgical Engineering degree from the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology. In addition MMG has appointed a second executive member Suresh Vadnagra, executive GM operations – Americas. Suresh joined MMG in March 2011 and has held the position of group GM operations South America since December 2016. "In Davis and Vadnagra we have two outstanding executives with the ability to guide and grow our global operations,” notes Jaio. "I am very pleased to welcome them to the MMG executive committee. “Both have truly earned their place on the executive team and bring a collaborative leadership style and deep operational expertise and experience across MMG’s portfolio. “These new executive leadership roles set us for continued operational excellence and establish a clear regional platform for growth," he comments. The new roles replace the former CEO position which has been managed in an acting capacity by Greg Travers, EGM – Business Support, since the departure of Marcelo Bastos in July this year. Davis will be based in Melbourne, Australia and Vadnagra will continue to be based in Lima, Peru. Feature image credit: MMG