ASX-listed Kibaran Resources will establish a pilot plant in Germany in 2018, aimed at supplying premium battery-grade graphite to customers in Europe and Asia. Tanzania – Kibaran Resources’ pilot plant will later be expanded to commercial scale production. The pilot plant development follows Kibaran Resources’ successful completion of the feasibility study on downstream processing of graphite from its Epanko graphite project in Tanzania. The study found that production of battery-grade graphite using Kibaran’s proprietary purification technology would be low-cost and environmentally friendly. The feasibility study was led by GR Engineering and involved extensive testing undertaken by ProGraphite, an international study of new industry developments and the participation of leading laboratories and potential customers. The objective was to identify a non-hydrofluoric acid processing technology to address the demand by lithium-ion battery manufacturers for a more environmentally friendly graphite product and at the same time, meet the stringent quality standards required for anode manufacture. This was successful with the company able to identify and refine a breakthrough in purification technology capable of producing premium quality battery product at a cost-competitive with less environmentally-acceptable production techniques adopted by the majority of existing anode material manufacturers. The success of the feasibility work and the development of the new processing technology provides Kibaran Resources with an exciting opportunity to generate significant additional value for shareholders and as a result, the company plans to accelerate the commercialisation of battery graphite production operations during 2018, focusing on the establishment of a modular pilot plant with an initial capability of producing 600 tpa of unpurified battery-grade graphite by the end of 2018. The pilot plant will then be used in the ramp-up of throughput rates to 20 000 tpa. Establishment of the new battery graphite manufacturing capacity is expected to provide the company with a significant competitive advantage in a key growth market in the graphite supply chain. Together with the sale of graphite concentrate from Epanko, this will enable Kibaran Resources to supply the full range of graphite products. Battery graphite processing and product testing During the feasibility study two types of spherical graphite were produced for analysis under commercial production plant conditions. The natural flake graphite used was  -195 micron, produced from the flotation of Epanko graphite, also within a commercial production plant. These two products were then evaluated extensively by leading battery anode manufacturers within Asia, all of whom confirmed that the company’s battery graphite satisfies their specification and performance requirements for potential future supply arrangements. The results and feedback provided by these organisations has been universally positive, with particular interest in the company’s new proprietary non-hydrofluoric acid purification process. New manufacturing facility Kibaran Resources has developed a seamless two stage commercialisation strategy to meet market demand as follows: Establishment of a pilot plant in Germany in early 2018 for the purposes of conducting further testwork on product qualities, refining the new non-hydrofluoric acid purification technology and completing customer pre-qualification processes. The pilot plant will allow expansion of production rates to 600 tpa to enable initial commercial sales of unpurified battery (spherical) graphite. Construction of a full commercial scale operation in 2019, commencing with the production and sale of up to 5 000 tpa and ramping-up over several years to reach a battery graphite production rate of 20 000 tpa. It is expected that the expansion of the pilot plant and the commencement of construction of full scale facilities would be undertaken in parallel to meet the forecast demand growth from customers in Asia and Europe. Completion  of the feasibility study is an important milestone in Kibaran’s transition towards  becoming a developer and operator of vertically integrated graphite operations.